Hi there.
This is Dino de la Rue.
We now understand how interfaces can be used from a syntax standpoint.
That's straightforward.
More important thing to understand is when to use an interface.
It's pretty common to see engineers facing a dilemma on whether they need to code something as an interface
or as an abstract class.
And that's because if an abstract class has only abstract methods, then it's no different from an interface.
Similarly, with Java, eight interfaces can include concrete methods and so they don't seem to be different
from abstract classes.
So through this, on the next lesson, we will try to address this by learning about how interfaces
are typically used.
In general, interfaces can be classified into two types.
First type can be referred to as representative interfaces, while the second type as makes sense.
And let's look at each of them.
Let's first look at representative interfaces.
A representative interface defines behavior that is representative of a subclasses.
That is interface methods.
Define the core functionality of subclasses.
Such interfaces typically come with one or more implementations.
If you're talking about a public API like the Java library, then it is not common for implementations
to come from outside API.
So the API designers would provide one or more implementations along with the interface itself.
Here is an example from the Java Library.
The name of the interface is List.
It has several implementations and the important ones are shown here.
Both the interface and its implementations are from Java package and we will study them in the Collections
Framework chapter.
The list interface represents a data structure that stores ordered collection of elements.
The key here is the term ordered, so the elements are ordered in some way.
That is the position of elements in the list has some significance here.
So the interface includes methods that allow elements to be stored, retrieved and deleted from specific
positions in the list.
And that kind of positional access is the representative behavior defined by the list interface.
So all the list implementations will also have this positional access behavior.
As mentioned earlier, it is not common for subclasses of representative interfaces to come from outside
the API, but when they do come it is usually from some other popular API that provides better implementation.
For example, you can see here that the list interface from the Standard Java Library has implementations
from other APIs like Google, Scuba and Apache comments.
Apache commits API Doc for tree list claims that it is a better alternative to link list, which is
part of standard Java API and also implements the list interface.
So normal developers developing some proprietary software generally do not implement such representative
interfaces.
Representative interfaces are not something that are restricted to public APIs.
They can also be declared in proprietary software.
Here is an example of a data integration component that aggregates data related to books from different
sources.
The representative interface book data integrator defines a common protocol by declaring methods such
as Get details and get reviews.
Get details would be responsible to fetch book details like title authors, description and so on,
given the ISBN of a.
Similarly, get reviews would be responsible to fetch the reviews for a given book, and implementations
are specific to each data source, and they encapsulate information about how to query the data sources
and also parse the results written by them.
Nice thing is if in future a new source is to be added, and if it is added by a new programmer, then
he or she will have to support both these methods.
And that's the advantage we get by having a common protocol.
That is, common protocol is forcing the programmer to provide an implementation.
Uncommon protocol also prevents the programmer from mis typing a method name.
For example, if the programmer types get reviews as the singular get review, then compiler would report
that the abstract method get reviews is not implemented.
So that would allow the programmer to fix the typo.
Now let's see what makes sense are mix ins are the second type of interfaces and these are interfaces
that define certain capability that subclasses can have.
So subclasses have their own core identity.
But in addition, when they implement a mixed scene, they are also announcing that that they additionally
support the capability that the mixing interface is defining.
Note that we are referring to this interface as a mix as it allows the functionality it is defining
to be mixed into the primary functionality of the class that is implementing the mix in.
API defines several mics and interfaces and makes sense are very generic meaning.
Unlike in the case of representative interfaces, users of the API typically write classes that implement
such interfaces.
In fact, make sense are not new to us.
We actually use the mix in in our latest class diagram.
The interface shareable is a mix.
Let's consider the book class here.
It has its core identity.
That is, it is a bookmark and is identified by features such as ID, title, description, authors
and so on.
In addition to having its core identity by implementing shareable interface, class book is also declaring
that it has the capability to be shared.
So shareable interface is a mix in and it allows the shareable functionality to be mixed into the primary
functionality of the class.
Recall that since movie class does not implement shareable, it does not have the additional shareable
capability.
Typically when people talk about interfaces, they usually associated with capability, like in the
case of makes sense.
But as we have seen, interfaces may also represent core functionality of its subclasses.
Here.
This example demonstrates the ebook class supporting multiple capabilities by implementing shareable,
comparable and learnable interfaces comparable and learnable from the standard Java Library by implementing
comparable book classes, declaring that its objects have the capability to be compared with each other
and by implementing enable, it is declaring that its objects have the capability to return their own
copies.
Strictly speaking, Cleanable is a different type of interface called marker interface, which we will
discuss later, and the global interface will also be discussed later.
Note that from a naming convention standpoint makes sense typically and with the suffix able like we
see here in the case of sharable or comparable, which kind of emphasize their capability.
So that's about it.
And we looked at the two types of interfaces that we can define conceptually that's very important to
know.
And it's nice that we did that.
Next, we will look at an effective Java item, which talks about when interfaces should be preferred
over abstract classes and also vice versa.
Thank you.